---
layout: post
category: post
title: The REAL cause of ShiftOS's death
---

Hey there, everyone, I'm Michael, here for another shitfuck about something that is probably extremely obvious. I say that because we're talking about a game that had a good potential, but failed. Harshly. You pretty much know what I'm talking about, as I used to be obsessed with it, and still am. ShiftOS. I mean, you gotta admit, it sounded cool on paper. Weird hacker guy gets into your system, gets you to try out his "experimental operating system", yada-yada-yada. It had potential. But it failed, and there's a number of reasons why. 

#1: Bad storyline.

OK. If I went up to a random person on the street, with a USB drive in hand, containing ShiftOS, and I briefly explained to them the story in about a sentence, it'd seem pretty cool to them. It seemed cool to me too, when I was stalking OSFT's Google+ page and found details about it. Initially, I thought the story was pretty good. But, as I began to get more in depth into the story, and found out bits of the story that weren't in the game yet (I was a developer and had access to that data) I began to wonder about things that actually were pointed out in the story near the end. What are Codepoints? Why do they exist? Why were they put into the OS? Why Bitnotes instead of Bitcoins? What was DevX's motive to make the OS? Why did he want many people testing it? I think that's one of the reasons the game failed hard. If we hadn't thought of these things and just accepted them the way Lord DevX had possibly thought we would, I don't think it'd fail as much. But, we ARE in the era of "Story and graphics makes the game", so, I don't think that would happen.

#2: HOLY FUCKING SHIT THAT CODE IS MESSY.

Anybody remember ShiftOS 0.0.8? The biggest release in the game? It marked a lot - many of the grandfather features of ShiftOS-Next started here. The Shiftnet, the better skin engine, OrcWrite, ---wait, I'm actually having trouble thinking of things that made this version valuable. Oh, wait, it was the first stable release created since OSFT left... but that kinda contributed to death, but I'll get into that in a bit. But first, I dare you to look in the source code for OrcWrite in ShiftOS. In fact, I still have an archive repo of 0.0.9 at http://www.github.com/TheUltimateHacker/ShiftOS. Tell me if you can understand what the code does, without knowing VB.NET, or using the GUI designer to warp to sections of the code and using context-clues to see what it does. I bet you can't. Why? Because it's fucking messy. Just like the rest of the game was. And let's remember that this specific file was written last year at the time of writing this. The over-all code messiness has undoubtedly INCREASED over the time. It is so fucking bad that I haven't added anything that would've made the game a breeze to develop because I'd have to go into MANY files and delete the same lines of code OVER and OVER and OVER AGAIN. A process that would take 30 minutes (including making new code to substitute the old code, testing it, etc) has turned into 24 hours of work, and 23.5 of them is just replacing code with code. That, and see if you can get a new dev to create a Shiftorium upgrade or a Shiftnet site. Bitch, that'd take a university lesson with the state of that code.

#3: OSFirstTimer? You killed your game...

OK, that heading's a bit extreme. It isn't REALLY his fault. Except, it kinda is. Don't get me wrong, OSFT wasn't really good at coding, and most of the code in that above Github repo is from the man himself, but really, his fanbase really helped ShiftOS along. Think of it. You had oldfarts from OSTalk/OSFT Forums that came over, AND, OSFT's fanbase was growing around 0.0.8's development, so later on you got me and a few others, and that really helped out ShiftOS. But as soon as he left, he basically took ShiftOS and slammed it on the hospital bed. I'm sure he knew it was gonna die. At that point, the only thing holding us together was 0.0.8's anticipated release. That, and his "fanbase". People came for OSFT, not ShiftOS.

#4: Matty, Jelly, and Picky, the fucktards.

I don't even need to go over this. If I need to for you, you're PROBABLY ONE OF THE THREE MENTIONED ON THE DAMN HEADER. IN THAT CASE, GET THE HELL OUT. If you're NOT them, well, I'm sorry... All you need to know is that those three didn't listen to the rules, were 9 year old retards, and BEGGED for OSFT to give them admin or something like tht. That, and Jelly was... well... rule34... yeah... he is literally a walking rule34.

#5: The revolation, it freed me, it killed me.

That header up there, is a quote from Alex Mercer, voiced by Berry Pepper in [PROTOTYPE]. Here's why I titled the header that. Because a certain techTalk admin who shall remain nameless thought that open-sourcing ShiftOS would be a revolation that would make ShiftOS awesome again. While it did have a bit of a growth-spert and we got things like PCNerd97's Mac-dock, and my Codepoints-to-Script-points converter for UltraDOS, in the long run it didn't really help out. You know how OSFT leaving put the game on a hospital bed? Well, Open-sourcing the game literally hooked it up on life-support. You could tell. Bugs weren't getting fixed, I was the most active dev for a while (I'm not lying, look at how many commits are from TheUltimateHacker) and releases weren't even being made. Well, except for 0.0.9, but I don't talk about that buggy mess. And whoever thought it was cool to make a Windows XP-like applauncher and add desktop icons was fucking retarded because it broke LOTS of skins, and made desktop backgrounds all weird. Oh wait, that was me. Well, the self-deprecation really helps. Speaking of deprecation... wait, we have been the entire time.

Yeah, I effectively destroyed desktop backgrounds and couldn't fix it.

Not to mention, V0rTeX (oh fuck, I named him) gained pretty much complete control of the repo, so HE decided what time the game died. And he convinced every dev to agree while I was gone, leaving a 5-against-1 battle. I guess I did the right thing, but not really because I just made ShiftOS-Next from the now-fucked UltraDOS code. And lastly, we have...

#6: ShiftOS-fuck-fuck-fuckity-fucking-motherfucking-Next.

First of all, WHAT THE FUCK KIND OF NAME IS SHIFTOS-NEXT? NEXT? NEXT!? That's the most generic name ever. And, hang on, I think I have a link to the story somewhere. Wait, here it is. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XJxho2oh0u0_50tHyiRh0oTENEPCnbfrdvjrOVFHnb4/edit?usp=sharing. Just scroll down to Page 5, you'll see it. I'm actually surprised how this was written. Wait, I wrote it. Which is surprising, as one of the characters' names was Jonathan Ladouceur, based off a friend of mine, and I didn't know how to spell Ladouceur or even Jonathan so I kept spelling it "Johnnathon Laddeuser". HOW THE FUCK DO I REMEMBER THAT? Anyways, jokes aside, there were MANY flaws with the game's story. Much of them, stemmed from the ORIGINAL GAME'S story. Things like Codepoints, and shit like that STILL weren't explained. And you can tell the story's outdated, because it still mentions the LadouceurNet, which was a dropped feature. Partly because I couldn't get the monthly Codepoint payment system working, and partly because my friend would've found it extremely fucking weird to be in a shitty VB.NET game like this, let alone have an entire Internet named after him. And it's damn good that I cancelled ShiftOS-Next, because he didn't even want to be in Shifted Dimension, which was chronologically after ShiftOS-Next. Also, it was coded in VB. So yeah, that took a big dump on ShiftOS.



Anyways, I'm done ranting. It is fun to shit on your projects and things you've contributed to, though. Some day I will film my friend playing both games and see his reaction. Maybe he'll like it, maybe he'll laugh at me and say "Dude, this is shit!" and I'll shake his hand and agree. You never know.